- Guy, welcome to Talk Python.
- Thanks, happy to be here.
- Yeah, it's fantastic to have you here.
Really excited to talk about buildings and architecture
and that kind of stuff just permeates our lives, right?
That's, you walk around, you go to cities,
you marvel at the large buildings,
go to someone's house and it's this beautiful place.
Really nice to see all that starts
with good architecture and design, right?
- Yeah, that's right.
- That's right.
Where we live, where we work, pretty much
most of our lives we'll spend inside
some sort of structure.
- Exactly.
Exactly, cool.
Well, we're gonna talk about that.
Before we get into that though,
let's just start with your story.
How'd you get into programming in Python?
- Yeah, it was a bit of a long journey to Python.
My, I think my first experience with programming
was actually with a Lego Mindstorm.
I don't know if you're familiar with it.
- Yeah.
A little robot thing, right?
You can program those with Python, can't you?
- Yeah, I don't know what it looks like these days.
I guess when I got it,
it was maybe in my early teenage years or something.
And at the time they had something
that was similar to MIT's Scratch,
kind of block play.
So I did a little bit of that.
And then later I tried to learn Visual Basic 6,
I think also in my early teenage years.
And that was fun.
I built a couple little personal projects.
- You know what, I feel like we still don't have something
to take the place of Visual Basic 6.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Do you think so?
I mean, I look around at all the different UI platforms,
whether that's the stuff we have in Python,
or whether that's Swift,
or whether that's .NET with WPF,
or whatever else you wanna talk about,
nothing is as easy as,
I want these buttons here in a text box in a list,
and I double click it, and I write three lines of code,
and that happens, right?
- Yeah, the environment has changed, right?
'Cause before there were just desktop apps, right?
You would build it and that's it.
And now you have to think about, you know,
even if React has made it as easy to build front end app,
you still have to deal with something else for styling.
And then you have to figure it out, you know,
how are you going to serve the data?
Or are you going to deploy it to?
- I mean, I'm not saying VB6 is the pinnacle
of what we could design, right?
It's not going to win massive design awards,
but wow, could people get stuff done quickly
with that framework?
- Yeah, and I mean, I never--
- You did a little bit there, huh?
- Yeah, I never got too deep,
but it was an extension of a robotics course
that I was taking, so we were building these little UIs
and then clicking around and having the robot move
or something, so it was very, very basic UI.
But what was interesting is, you know, at the time,
I grew up in Brazil, and at the time I was still there,
and I wanted to get really deep,
but there was a bit of a language barrier, I think.
You know, this was also, you know, pre-Google.
So trying to learn how to program
while also not knowing how to speak English,
I actually feel like it slowed me down a bit.
- Yeah, I can imagine.
I've always had a lot of both respect
and I guess a little bit of sympathy
for people who are non-native English speakers,
especially people who didn't particularly
speak English super well,
but then had to program with for loops and while loops
and true and false and ints.
And it's just like, if, you know,
maybe if you're with a language that's not that different,
it's not that hard, but you know,
if you're like Chinese or even Portuguese,
it's, you know, why do you have to program
all these foreign words?
It just seems crazy to me that that's how it's been, right?
- Yeah, and also the, you know, the resources,
even today with, you know, post Google era
or during the Google era, you can, you know,
If you search for some sort of engineering problem in English or in Portuguese, I can
guarantee you, you're going to get a much bigger pool of answers and resources in English.
- Yes.
- Yes, that was a little bit of a barrier.
In fact, what actually happened is I never really progressed and I just went on to other
things.
- Maybe this programming thing is not for me.
- Yes, I don't know.
I just kind of didn't really get it, never really clicked,
and then I moved on to other things,
and I ended up pursuing a degree in architecture,
you know, to talk a little bit about it,
but it was a little bit of kind of a gap,
and then I think it was just, you know,
during my college years,
I tried getting into a little bit of web development,
you know, played around with ActionScript,
you know, Flash, I think that's what it was called, right?
It was like JavaScript-like, instead of Flash.
And then within architecture,
I got a little bit into visual programming,
which it's, I guess, a more sophisticated version
of Scratch, but similar to what 3ds Max
uses to compose material,
this idea that you can kind of connect flows
into each other visually.
And that's used pretty extensively in architecture still.
And that was kind of my gateway back
into programming in some ways.
And then a couple of years later,
I actually practiced architecture for,
I think about five or six years.
And at the time I was trying to figure out
how I could change careers.
And I was just, I had this kind of itch.
I just really wanted to write code
and I couldn't figure out how to kind of break it.
And I ended up doing this process of changing careers.
I actually took a year off
and spend every kind of breathing minute I had
trying to learn how to code.
And surprisingly--
- Was that on your own or did you go to a university?
- No, it was just on my own.
literally like Googled, you know,
what language should I learn first?
You know, and this was like 2014, I think, 15.
And I actually picked Ruby first, you know.
This was, you know, Ruby on Rails,
golden years, I guess.
And I started with Ruby and after a couple weeks,
I just didn't enjoy it that much.
I was getting confused with some of the basic
kind of building blocks.
And I decided to try Python
and it was just kind of smooth sailing.
I mean, I guess as smooth as it can be learning by yourself.
- Yeah, yeah, sure.
- But I felt like even the basic grammar,
it would just kind of stick.
I didn't have to keep going back and say,
oh, how do you do for loop again?
I found that it was always a bit stickier with me,
not having to think about where some semicolons would go.
It was just easier and smoother
and more enjoyable for me in general.
- For sure.
- Well, I gave VB a lot of positive praise
a little bit ago.
I think also that language is a really interesting example
of how to try to be like Python, but not do it well.
So with JavaScript or C#
or a lot of these languages,
you have all these symbols on the screen,
especially the static languages, C#, Java, C++, right?
Semi-colons, angle brackets, you know, parentheses,
all sorts of stuff all over the place.
And then there's languages like Python that say,
you know, you don't need that.
You don't need all these symbols.
Let's just go and write it.
And, you know, VB is like that, right?
There's no semi-colons.
There's not that many symbols,
but it's like, everything is begin for, end for,
like, it's just, it's the worst possible.
It's like, they still need the closing curly braces
and stuff like that,
but they don't want to put a curly brace.
So they make you type like a huge long word,
which is just crazy.
And somehow Python struck that smooth balance
of not having all that stuff,
but not giving up too much as well.
- Yeah, and also the boilerplate that's required,
I think I had tried doing some C# as well,
and you open up the simplest example you can find,
and it's class, void, public,
and you're like, wait, what is public?
I haven't gotten to understand classes or access
and things like that.
And it's really overwhelming.
And in Python, it's like, even the class,
it takes a little bit when you're learning,
but you can just, here's a function
that's inside of this object,
and it's much easier to understand,
I think, as a beginner, it's gonna ramp up.
- I think it's a big testament
that you can be really effective with Python
with a super, like a very partial understanding
of what Python is or how it works, right?
You can not even be aware that half of the stuff exists,
and you can still get along just fine.
So that's pretty awesome.
So let's dive into the main topic, buildings, architecture.
So I've seen some of the presentations you've given
and it sounds to me like this is a industry
that's ripe for more programming, automation, empowerment.
You know, I always say that programming is a superpower
for people who are not programmers, right?
if you're an architect versus an architect who programs,
the programming architect can do way more, right?
And it sounds to me like this area
is kind of open for more of that.
- Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
- Yeah, give us the background.
It starts with pictures and drawings
and blueprints type things, right?
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
So I mean, I guess I should just preface this
with the fact that I've been outside the industry
for about four years now,
just doing more traditional software development.
So I may be a little bit of the loop on some changes,
but in general, the time I spent in the industry,
what you would see is that
it's still a pretty kind of analog industry.
And there are parts that are improving,
there are parts that are very advanced.
I mean, we do still manage to build incredible buildings,
but there's this weird kind of tension where
people are coming up with these design concepts
and figured out what the building is going to look like,
what spaces you're going to need.
And then kind of at the other end,
you have people standing on their,
like literally cutting material and assembling things.
And then there's this big kind of gap in the middle
of how you go from one thing to another.
And that's kind of the meat of architecture.
So my experience was primarily in medium and large buildings
And it's actually just very labor intensive,
you know, labor as far as software,
not the hands-on labor for architects,
but it was just a lot of work
that goes into designing a big building.
You know, so if you have a, I don't know,
one of the office buildings I worked on,
you know, 150,000 square feet, six story or something.
And, you know, someone had come up with a design,
okay, it's going to look like this.
And it was very, you know,
conceptual design kind of massive.
And then you have to turn into a real project
with faucets that work and lights and sprinklers.
- Exactly.
When you think, well, let me rephrase that.
When I think of architecture,
I think of the overall feel of it, right?
Is it flowing?
Does it have sharp edges?
Does it feel modern?
And so on.
I have a picture here on the screen for us to look at
that's this sort of wood structure, it's light and airy.
And sure, that's architecture, but it sounds like,
and so are the support beams, so is the plumbing,
so is the light switch and where they go,
and just way more detail than just the general skeleton
or structure out there.
- Yeah, and like which part of the plywood
is gonna go in which direction,
like on your kitchen counter or something.
like that level of detail, but what you're showing here,
it's kind of what you see in school
and what you get really excited about in school.
And then when you start working,
you realize that there's only a few people
that get to do this type of work.
And the majority of the people are just, you know,
kind of doing coordination and working on, you know,
lots of kind of drawings and coordination
between different trades.
But, you know, of course that does happen,
but a big chunk of the work is just figuring out how to coordinate and assemble drawings.
So if you imagine, a lot of this work is done on kind of traditional desktop applications.
So if you're familiar with Autodesk, the biggest ones in the US are AutoCAD, Revit.
Those are more... Revit is very like architecture and kind of building focused.
AutoCAD is more generic, drawing and drafting.
And then you have other players like MacNeil, they do kind of 3D modeling,
and it's used all the way from small jewelry design and boats all the way to buildings,
but more at the conceptual stage.
And Revit is kind of the big dog as far as like building documentation.
And there's this interesting process because at the same time,
you are coming up with the building at large scale, right?
Like what you see there, this kind of mass in.
you have to zoom in all the way to,
what is it gonna look like,
the light cove in a bathroom, for example,
and you might have to cut a section through that in detail.
And there's this weird process we are still in
where buildings are designed half in 3D and half in 2D.
So you do some 3D and then you get sort of these views,
but then you might do a projection.
You're like, oh, we need to see just this wall
or just the floor, how it's gonna look.
this case where it needs a drawing of like,
what does it look like if I cut through here?
And you literally draw in 2D
and you have to assemble these big drawing sets
that are references, you know, that show the 3D and say,
okay, if you were to cut through this,
here's what you would see.
And oftentimes they're not even like the same model.
You're just trying to make this thing look, you know,
coordinated.
- How often does it go wrong?
- Oh, pretty often.
Yeah, pretty often.
So one of the things that's done,
usually there's a tool called Navisworks
is one of the ones that's used,
that's for clash detection.
So, 'cause not only you have the architects,
but you also have these trades coming together, right?
So you have separate models for the architecture,
like walls and floors and things like that.
And then you have the structural engineer
as a separate model with all the steel
or concrete structure, and maybe the MEP,
mechanical, electrical employment folks
have a separate model, and then they all get linked.
And in the end, you may have like, you know,
a duck going through a light fixture,
or things cutting through wall
and you actually have to do clash detections
and trying to figure out places
where the model may not have a valid condition.
- Yeah, I can imagine.
So this Revit app is largely a .NET C# desktop application.
Is that right?
- Yeah, correct.
- Yeah, and so if you want a programmer to work with it,
what do you do?
Do you do that in C#?
- Yeah, so Revit's been around for a while,
and I'm not sure when it started.
I don't think it was from the very beginning,
but at some point they released an API.
And without this API,
you can do everything through the UI, right?
So you can click around
and you can basically achieve everything you need to.
And through the API,
you can sort of automate everything that's visible
and sometimes a little bit more.
But the idea is that, for example,
One of the first tasks I automated in Revit
was I was working on really large office buildings,
and each room would get a tag
with the name of the room,
and I would have to literally drag this tag on.
And then sometimes as the building moved,
things would get kind of out of place,
and you wanted the tags to be kind of centered nicely.
And you would literally have to go around
and move around these tags.
And one of the first--
- For hundreds of rooms, right?
That sounds like not a fun, good use of your time.
- Oh, no, definitely not at all.
And yeah, one of the first automations I built
was this tool that would just go automatically room by room
and make sure that the tag was in the center.
So we just kind of figured out the delta
between the center of the room and where the tag was
and like slide it.
And I actually had at the company that I worked at a time,
I had a system that would measure the use of tools
and that tool would just get used
like hundreds of times a day.
So you imagine every time someone clicked that button,
you know, the amount of time you would see these architects
like going around and moving these tags
to get them centered.
And just little things like that,
very kind of monotonous, boring,
not very impressive.
- Yeah, but those are the kinds of things that you can--
- I just spend a lot of time on the day to day.
- Yeah, but you can easily apply code to those
and really make people's lives better.
And it sounds like hundreds of people's lives better
by not making them fiddle with stupid labels all the time,
but you just push a button, right?
So while these can be programmed in C#,
there's a Python angle, right?
- Yeah.
Yeah, so there's a couple of different ways
that Python comes in.
I think Revit itself does support
some sort of Python automation,
but it's, again, it's a bit bulky,
difficult to use, difficult to debug.
So one of the main ways that it's used these days,
there's this project,
and I've actually become really good friends
with the maintainer,
but there's this project called PyRevit.
And the idea is that when you write Python,
you get used to things being sort of Pythonic or more elegant, and it's easy to do, right?
So what he was trying to do is how can we have this kind of experience building automations
within Revit? So instead of having to compile my C# add-in, how can I kind of just pop up
the script, click a button, and have it run my Python code? And that's essentially what
he built. So initially it was using only Iron Python because that's the way it integrates
within the Revit environment since it's .NET. You would essentially use an Iron Python,
you could interact directly with Revit through the common language runtime.
Right. So tell us a bit about Iron Python. I suspect many people do know about it. This
came originally out of a project at Microsoft, I think was this Dino Veland? I can't remember.
- Yeah, that's what I've heard.
I've interacted with the maintainers a couple times
over the last few years,
and the impression I've had is that there was one or two
people kind of trying to get this going,
but it's not very active.
And I think the three release wasn't until,
oh yeah, it shows there it's still in alpha, actually.
At the time when I was using it, it was still on 2.7.
You know, it's been stuck there for a long time.
- At least it's making progress.
I mean, here's a release in 2021 on it, so that's good.
- Yes. You know, one of the things, I'm not too familiar with it, but I remember hearing
from the PyRevit maintainer that they actually ended up using this other project called Python.net.
- Yes. - And, you know, Iron Python is essentially
a Python interpreter that, you know, it's written in C#, and Python.net does something
kind of different. It actually allows you to use CPython but interact with the .net
side and I don't quite remember how he worked but I know he got it to work and he was able
to get CPython applications running inside of Revit as well.
>> Right. So Iron Python is a Python interpreter but instead of having the interpreter implemented
in C the way that the one that we're all mostly familiar with is, it's implemented on top
of .NET. And yeah, that was Dino Vilanda double check. So nice job on that, Dino. It's implemented
on top of the .NET CLR runtime,
and it's its own little thing,
and this thing called the dynamic language runtime,
which means integration with .NET is super easy,
because it's already running in .NET.
It's equivalent to saying integration with C is easy on
CPython because it's already effectively running in C.
I guess that's probably a pretty natural way to go because if you're
trying to integrate with a C#.NET library,
you got to somehow get that thing in and do something with it.
So I could see why they would go with Iron Python first.
But yeah, I've sort of heard that Python.net,
it seems a little bit more CPython friendly, I guess.
- Yeah, I think one of the issues with Iron Python project
is that it's kind of impossible to maintain.
Like how do you keep up with all the changes
and releases of CPython and rebuild them from scratch
in C#?
I would imagine it would take a huge amount of time
and resources to keep that project going in the same pace.
- Yeah, so here looking at python.net,
we've got, it supports 2.7, but also 3.5, 3.6, 3.7,
and 3.8, which is not 3.9 and 3.10,
but it sure is better than alpha support for 3.4.
- Yeah, do you know how it actually,
what it actually does?
How does it get to--
- I have no, I have not learned enough about python.net
to know how it works, but it's, yeah,
It looks pretty neat though, doesn't it?
- Yeah, but I think it's just,
you're able to operate in CPython,
but kind of import common language runtime
and talk to your .NET DLLs in the same way you would
from Iron Python.
So it's pretty nice. - Yeah, you get
very foreign looking code.
Import CLR from system.winstos.forms, import form,
which is something you would expect to see
in a .NET project, not in a Python project.
- Yeah, you know, but there's actually,
that's one interesting thing
that I've seen happen quite a bit
because people within this industry
ended up using Iron Python quite a bit.
I know there's a few projects out there
for building UIs in Python,
but I've actually seen quite a few projects
with like desktop UIs basically built using .NET
because it has--
- Interesting.
- What is it, WinForms?
I forgot what the other one was.
- WinForms is the one that's like the modern-ish VB.
I say modern-ish because I think they kind of stopped
advancing that in something like 2008,
I think is when they stopped advancing it.
So it's not like super modern,
but it's way more modern than VB6 was.
So yeah, there's that and there's WPF
and then some weird variants.
- Yeah, WPF is the more current one, right?
- Yeah, also way harder to use.
- Yeah.
- But yeah, more modern one, yeah.
Yeah, so what you're saying is you've seen some people
write Python code that then will do stuff like this
to put that kind of UI on the screen, right?
Okay.
- Yeah, and even PyRev itself had quite a few
kind of UI components, and they were all just using
standard .NET stuff, but writing in Python.
And what's interesting too is, in addition to PyRev,
there's a few other projects, and one of them
I had worked on that was called Revit Python Wrapper,
and there's another one called Revitron,
which all have kind of similar idea,
which is like, I want to have the Python experience,
but, you know, using this other kind of stack.
So the idea for Revit Python wrapper is that
the Revit API, it's this very, very bulky,
you know, C# API, it's enormous.
- You can make it do its thing in Python,
but you work with the type names and the function names
and stuff straight out of the .NET world, right?
which is clearly not Pythonic.
- Yeah, so your code doesn't look or feel like Python.
And then the interfaces and kind of the APIs
for the libraries are weird.
So like, if I want to just, you know, query, you know,
this model for a wall, I would have to like build this
object, you know, in this kind of like builder pattern.
- Oh gosh, okay.
- You know, it's very strange.
Like it doesn't feel like Python.
So when I started writing that, I would, you know,
build these little functions that would take the C# code
and give me like a Python-like call that I could make.
And that's what this project came out from,
was this idea that I wanted to wrap everything
that didn't feel Pythonic to make it feel like--
- So you wrote your own,
like your PyRevit wrapper a little bit
that would then make it easier, right?
And make it feel more natural?
And then you--
- Yeah, so at the time I was writing Python code
and the PyRevit was sort of,
it was kind of the environment.
So the idea for PyRevit is you could literally
just save this .py file in a folder and put a PNG icon
and it would sort of load it up that file
and add it to the Revit ribbon
so someone could click on it.
And when he clicked, it would load your source code
and feed it into the Iron Python engine.
So it would just help you kind of, you know,
establish this environment
and you didn't have to compile, you know,
an add-in and restart Revit.
And then Revit Python wrapper was that
every script that I had,
I would just import Revit Python wrapper
and then just say, you know,
collector type equals wall, and it would query
for every wall in the model.
And I stopped working on this project for a while,
and then I recently ran into this Revitron,
which is a much more kind of sophisticated version,
but essentially the same idea.
People wanted to write very clean Python,
but operate kind of on top of the Revit API
without having to deal with the non-Python look and feel.
- Interesting, okay, yeah.
And even has its own CLI.
- Oh yeah, yeah.
- I guess it integrates with the PyRevit CLI, right?
So one of the things that's interesting about this,
this PyRevit, which if I go farther than a back,
I'll find it, is that you can use Python
to build these little toolbar buttons or widgets, right?
- Yeah.
- And the way you do it is, as you sort of described,
there's this super convention of all these directory,
this directory structure, right?
Like if you put this file there
and then the Python file in like some location
that can, it'll trigger the discovery
that'll then create like some kind of icon
and action in there, right?
Maybe tell us about that a bit.
- Yeah, and under the hood,
if you were to write this in C#,
there would be a whole bunch of boilerplate
that you would have to add
for how those buttons get instantiated
and loaded into the UI.
And one thing that I've sort of witnessed,
seen PyRevit project grow,
you know, I was one of the kind of early users, adopters,
and it was this huge barrier
for people who wanted to automate Revit
because you had to learn C#
and the add-ins were difficult to build.
You know, it was just this big kind of--
- You probably had to learn interfaces
and how to implement them and all that kind of stuff.
And you had to go around the compile settings
and think around with it to get it to work.
And you had to compile for different versions of Revit.
And it was really difficult, at least for me.
Maybe it's easier for some people.
By Revit, you could literally just duplicate this folder
and open a new Python file, start messing with it.
And every time you click, it would rerun.
You wouldn't even have to reload anything
'cause you would just read the source code
and feed it to the iron Python interpreter.
So for the first time,
I felt like I had this ability to kind of iterate quickly
and explore and test things out.
So it was a totally different experience.
- Yeah, that's great.
I'm looking at the code sample here for PyRivet,
the create your first command example.
And I see exactly what you're talking about
with this sort of C# abstractions
leaking into the Python world, right?
- Yeah, there's definitely a little bit.
- Yeah, 'cause it says,
oh, look how easy it is to build this.
You just drop this in this here
and you put your Python file in the folder
that is like your button where it contains your icons.
And then you write capital DB, capital, you know,
capital F filtered, capital E element, capital collector.
So filtered element collector of da da da, right?
It's real similar to what you would expect
from that language.
that language is idioms and not Python idioms, right?
- Yeah, Python wrapper, I started wrapping these classes.
So for example, the filtered element collector,
I mean, that's a pretty long name
that I wouldn't give it to a Python class usually.
So I just called it the collector
and I created a class
that wrapped the filtered element collector.
So instead of writing something like this,
you would say, you know, collector type equals wall
and you could write, you know, wall as a, you know,
as an enum and you would sort of,
basically output this code that you're seeing there.
But the problem is you can't really avoid it
because even though you wrapped collector,
there are like 8,000 other like C# classes
that I'm not going to wrap them individually.
So like eventually it just kind of leaks.
You just can't, you can't do the whole thing.
- Yeah, somewhere there's some function
you can't get in front of
and it returns one of these things.
- Yeah, exactly.
- And there it is, right?
Exactly.
- And I tried, you know, I tried at some point,
I had these, you know,
wrappers that would take the return and wrap those into some sort of generic wrapper, and
it would get so complicated, and people that, you know, they couldn't figure out what it was doing,
so that's why that Revit Python project ended up just kind of being abandoned at some point,
and I wasn't as involved with it anymore, so it just kind of sat there, but that was the idea.
If you look at an example for that one, you see that it looks a lot more Python-like.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Let's find a quick example, maybe.
I'm going to check out the test.
How's that?
Yeah, I'm clearly seeing stuff that looks more like Python
in here.
It's fantastic, right?
Like, you know, variable names.
Another thing that you spoke about that--
I don't even know what you were doing to solve this,
but you said that you had to somehow adapt to things
like out parameters and ref parameters,
which is a certain way to have a,
instead of doing pass by value,
so you can actually modify the reference itself
in the parameter.
It's a little bit like passing a pointer to a pointer
in C or something like that,
where you can change the pointer itself inside the function.
What did they do in Python to deal with that?
Let's see.
I don't know how to do that in Python.
- Python has a special,
I don't remember cause it's been a while.
- Oh, okay, so in Iron Python,
there's like an out or something, okay.
- Yeah, so you import some special Iron Python object
and that becomes your reference and you pass that.
So, you know, Iron Python has these weird kind of ways
of handling those differences.
What's difficult is that it's a very niche thing.
So when you run into a problem with those,
there's not a whole lot of people
like trying to solve this, you know?
So it's always a little bit difficult too.
I've had that sort of scenario before
and it's not very often fun.
And I remember specifically one time
there was something I was trying to do with this code
and it just was not responding in any way that I expected.
And I was at my wits end.
I'm like, I'm just gonna Google this.
I'm just gonna just find whatever I can.
And the only answer I could find was a blog post
I wrote about it six months ago.
I'm like, well, that's it.
We're done.
There's no hope for me now.
'Cause I'm sure I've tried, I can't do it.
The only thing I can find is some dumb blog post
that didn't really answer the question I wrote about it.
So here we go.
So tell me, yeah, so tell me about it.
Yeah, go ahead.
- On Iron Python, a couple of times I had issues.
My only resource was to go into the GitHub project
and actually post an issue.
And I said, you know, here's a Stack Overflow question.
No responses, I'm completely at lost here, you know?
- Yeah, well, that's such one of the such a big challenge
of using one of these or the niche interpreters
or runtimes because when you need help,
there's no one to help you.
And if it comes down to some little weird internal behavior,
right, that behavior might be different.
And just 'cause people, they'll tell you,
well, this is how it works in CPython.
You're like, well, I know,
but that's not how it works for me right now.
- Right.
- Can you help me?
Like, no, I don't know anything about that, right?
It's a challenge.
- Yeah, and if you're trying to, you know,
post a reproducible example in Stack Overflow
and you have to have Revit open, for example,
to execute this.
If you're trying to deal with some nuance of Iron Python
within this environment, it's really, really difficult.
- Oh my gosh.
Yeah, I can see why you would wanna get away from it.
I'm guessing that Python.net makes this easier,
but maybe it's still the same.
I'm not entirely sure.
I would like to learn more about that one, but--
- Yeah, same here.
- Yeah.
Let's see.
I just want to say, hey, Bhavani said,
finally could catch up on the live stream here.
Big fan of Python.
And just people listening, if you
get the chance to be grateful to drop by the live stream we
do on YouTube, just go to talkpython.fm/youtube.
YouTube can be part of it.
It's always fun to get input from everyone out there.
All right.
Give us some examples of the types of things
that you are able to do with Python and automated Revit.
There's a talk.
I'll go ahead and link to the talk that you gave
at a meetup in San Francisco at Pine, Pine-sla?
Hopefully I'm saying that correctly.
- Yeah, that's right.
- Yeah, and you talked about,
there's a lot of nice graphics,
and you talked a lot about what you've done
at various projects and stuff.
Give us some concrete examples.
Like, it's all great in practice
to say you could automate stuff,
but like, what did you actually do?
- Yeah, so there was a lot of those kind of very boring,
you know, automate and moving tags type of thing.
Some of the other bigger projects I worked on,
at the time I was working at WeWork.
- This is the fast growth time of WeWork as well, right?
- Yeah, yeah, that's right.
So, when I joined WeWork, it was a relatively small team.
I think the built-in information modeling team,
which is the team that I had joined,
had just a handful, like four, five people.
And I think the company as a whole was maybe 800.
And when I left four years later,
they were at around 10,000 employees.
- Oh my gosh.
- And then the building department,
the design building and design department,
initially was open in one or two buildings a month.
And by the time I left, they were open in 25 or 30.
So, all other kind of,
we were drama side of what happened within the company,
within the kind of design and architecture department,
it was just, it was really interesting to see.
- Yeah.
Because traditionally, companies build in buildings,
they're doing that as a service.
So they're an architecture office that you hire.
And WeWork was one of those examples
where you had this kind of vertical integration.
They were the owners, they were the operators,
they were the designers, they were the builders,
they even bought, they acquired a general contractor.
So you had this huge opportunity to optimize
and to integrate.
So some of the things that we did,
like one of the projects I worked there
was related to integrating data from the earlier design
process into everything that would happen downstream.
So for example, as designers were working on buildings
and trying to get them through the approval process,
as soon as this project was starting to materialize,
we wanted to get those spaces fed
into the sales pipeline.
So we would actually build Revit integrations
that would extract data from these models
and feed them to other parts of the company.
So one of them was related to--
- Interesting.
- Yeah, to figure out how many offices
are going to be in this building,
how big are they, how many desks are in each one,
and essentially integrate that, for example,
with Salesforce so that the sales team
could start selling them.
We did things with supply chain as well.
So we have logistics company that would be trying
to orchestrate shipment off, for example,
these chairs and couches that you see in the photo,
they would need to be placed at warehouses
and then delivered to buildings before opening.
And they turned these buildings around really quickly.
So it was really important that they had kind of insight.
So as people were designing these buildings,
we could actually start quantifying what was being used,
what was going to be assigned,
and then get the data sort of out of the model,
which is not very, you know,
it's essentially a file that sits there
and we would use Python, for example,
to quantify these things,
pull the data out and then, you know,
send them on to other platforms.
So it's sort of a little bit of kind of data wrangling.
- Yeah, it's like JIT interior design,
just in time, right?
We're gonna need this here by Tuesday,
so we're gonna automate it.
So one of the things you have to do
is you have to figure out how,
maybe describe for, I'm sure not everyone's been inside of a WeWork before, give us a quick sense
of what is the inside of a WeWork look like? - Yeah, so WeWork...
- Or a lot of these co-working spaces, but WeWork is probably one of the bigger ones.
- Yeah, so WeWork, they would take empty floor spaces and they would use sort of storefronts,
kind of glass their storefronts and subdivide them into small offices, as small as a single desk,
or a little cubicle, and they could be as big as 15 or 20 person office.
And they were really efficient in how they kind of packed these desks.
And they would do it in a way that it was very efficient for them.
They would pack these offices really close, but then they would create these really nice,
beautiful, shared common spaces. So when you would walk into WeWork, you would often see these very
kind of slick hip spaces, well-designed music playing.
So it was this kind of nice experience, this cool kitchen, coffee area.
And I think they were really good at it.
I got to work out of WeWorks for many years, and it was a really nice change from my previous
kind of office environment.
So even as a product, I actually really enjoy what they were building.
>> Nice.
Yeah, so one of the things you spoke about is setting up some automation to figure out,
well, how should we lay out these tables,
either this open space, like just hangout area tables,
or like the co-working desks,
or there's some parts that have like glass,
clear glass separators, so you have some sort of quiet,
but it's still, they've all gotta be laid out, right?
And you can say, okay, if we adjust the walls like this
or do that, then here's the arrangement, right?
- Yeah, a couple of my coworkers were trying to figure out
how to automate this so that as architects are taking this kind of big floor plate and
they're slicing it, they're generally trying to figure out how the circulation is going
to work. And then you build these kind of long blocks, and then you're going to start
subdividing them to offices. And then as you start subdividing them, and then you've got
to figure out how the desks are going to work. And then you have columns. So actually like
laying them out and getting kind of an efficient algorithm can be kind of time consuming. So
some folks from the data and research team,
they were writing algorithms.
And the first one that I saw was actually written in Python.
And I think it was served like using a Flask API,
but the idea is that you could pass it a polygon
and you would apply these rules
about how you can lay out desks within this kind of polygon.
You would say, the door is here,
do your best to lay out desks.
And you would try to do that.
It was fairly straightforward math.
It wasn't artificial intelligence
or some sort of machine learning.
It was actually pretty straightforward brute force,
if I start laying these out along the edges.
But they were really interesting.
They did some really interesting research on that.
- Yeah, that's cool.
A lot of nice examples of what you can do
with a little bit of Python, a little bit of automation,
even if you've got to somehow mash that together
with a .NET or I guess if it was a Java API,
you could use Jython or some other thing like that, right?
- Yeah, and this one specifically,
the way we got around it is by actually building it
as an API and have a C# add-in called API
to do the calculation.
So that way we didn't have to deal with it.
- Nice, yeah, that's perfect.
All right, and then let's talk about this other thing
that you've been working on, aec.works,
which is Architectural Engineering and Construction Works.
And tell us a bit about this project.
This is a website you built for like raising the visibility
of cool companies in the space.
- Yeah, yeah, definitely.
So this actually started as, you know,
when I was an engineer at WeWork,
and I was kind of seeing a lot of really interesting
companies kind of start to show up
and try to build either software products,
or kind of try to take a technology and build a new kind of companies within AC
that were trying to use technology in some interesting way.
And I started keeping a list of it, you know, a Google sheet or airtable form or something.
And this list started growing, so it started with four and five,
and eventually I had 20 or 30 of them,
and I would often share them in different kind of community forums.
And then I thought it would be interesting if I could somehow make that available
and maybe even so that people could contribute and edit them.
So basically build this out.
It's a Django,
somewhat traditional Django app,
except that on the front end instead of using templates,
I just use Vue.js.
So it's front end,
back end separation type project.
The idea is that you can create
these entries that represent these different companies or products,
and then it just displays them.
It's pretty simple, nothing really crazy.
- Nice, yeah, I will highlight a couple
just to give people a sense,
but there's a way to come here and say,
suggest a company that's doing innovative work here, right?
So if people are out there like,
why is my company out here?
Well, there's a button, right?
- Yeah, exactly.
- All right, so just briefly,
let's talk about two of them that are maybe noteworthy.
One right at the top of the moment
that says, it's called Speckle.
And let's see, it says,
engineers, designers, and hackers in the entire organization rely on us for interoperability
and automation. So it's like source control, collaboration, versioning, notification for
architectural construction folks. - Yeah, it's a little bit like, you know,
AC, architecture engineering construction, you know, data wrangling on steroids, right? So,
you know, when you're, you know, if you're working with software, you can pretty much
always just like make a JSON and pass it around, right? And you can, as long as you can get
at least some basic data types. Now, if you have to pass around a wall, it's much more
difficult than just passing around a string. And what type of wall is it? Where is it located?
How big it is? It's complicated. So you have all these different desktop applications,
and I've highlighted some that are used primarily within architecture, like Revit, for example.
there's all these other applications for other disciplines within the construction
engineering industry.
>> Right, some of the ones they highlight are like Unity, Civil 3D,
E tabs, Blender, Unreal, that kind of stuff, yeah?
>> Yeah. >> Yeah.
>> So yeah, the first time Speckle came around,
I believe it was like an academic project, came out of Europe.
And what they would do is they would build, for example, an add-in for
one of these platforms.
and they would output some sort of serialization
off these objects.
And then they would build an add-in
for another of these desktop apps
that could read that JSON object
and deserialize it back into this architectural
or engineering, whatever, structural beam or something.
So it was about building all these connectors
that would plug into these environments
that weren't very easy to interop data.
- Right, right.
- And on top of it, you would have a web platform.
I think they call it like streams or something.
And that way you could take data from one thing
and plug it into another,
kind of see them all online together
and share them, for example.
So there's some really interesting ideas
about collaborating, tracking them.
And that's only possible
because you take them out of these desktop apps
because a lot of them are not really built
for this type of collaboration
or this type of data sharing.
- Yeah, that's a really interesting idea.
Like these things do not support any sort of interoperability,
but if we can just get stuff in and out of any one of them,
we could be that middle ground, right?
Yeah, so I don't know a ton about this.
I really basically just skim the website
and watch their explainer video,
but it seems like some pretty cool open source stuff
for people in this space.
So they could check that out, right?
- Yeah, and what's exciting about them
is that they're actually open source too.
So, you know, a lot of software in AC
is they're big companies and they're paid,
and there's not a lot of example of successful
open source companies, essentially.
They've actually been able to become a real company
with employees and raise money, and they're open source,
so it's really interesting to see them trying to build
a successful open source model within the industry.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Pradhvana on the livestream says,
two double high fives for Django, for your alpha.
AEC, that works.
All right, so that's Speckle, which is cool.
And then also Ladybug, Ladybug tools.
- Yeah, Ladybug is incredible too.
Ladybug's been around for a while.
I don't know how long,
but it was actually one of my first experiences,
one of the first times I got exposed to open source
within AEC industry as well.
But it's essentially, it started,
It was a bunch of Python tools that would help you
do kind of environmental analysis.
And they would basically use like weather data
and some existing products.
I forgot that it's been a while since I used this,
but they would essentially wrap around
these heavier duty programs that could actually do
like daylight simulation or like solar analysis,
but they would build an interface in Python
that you could use within,
or Revit wasn't too much later,
but Rhino and some of these other AC applications.
And the outcome of it was that
you would basically,
it would allow any kind of architect,
students to essentially take any type of building
that they were designing and actually run
and see what does this building look like
throughout the year?
What does sun hit?
Or what does light look like inside?
And actually render these analytical kind of drawings
from it.
So it was really interesting.
made all of that accessible to a lot of people that wouldn't have been able to otherwise.
I think it was entirely written in Python for a long time.
Yeah, it says cross-platform, Ladybug tools, it's written in Python, which can be run almost
anywhere, and plugged into any geometry engine, which is great. And then it talks about having
some visual aspects of harnessing the capabilities of CAD to produce a variety of interactive 3D
graphics, which producing cool interactive graphics in Python is always fun. But this one's
Python's also free and open source.
- Yep, that's right.
I think they've received some grants
from the Department of Energy or something like that.
They're pretty well supported.
- Yeah, and it's 99.8% Python.
A lot of Python and 0.2% other.
- It's probably marked down.
- I'm guessing it's the one shell script
and the requirement.txt here, so.
- Yeah, that's right.
- Pretty awesome, all right.
So all that stuff is super neat.
the work that you're doing here to shine a light
on the different ways we can automate stuff.
You know, we've in architecture,
we've got Revit and then the PyRevit
and the Python Revit wrapper,
and then RevTron, you said.
And then also these open source connectors
and interoperability platforms are all super neat.
I do wanna talk to you about one other thing
that doesn't have a super clear connection,
but is also, it sounds like it came out of your time
that we work, the stuff you did with Airtable.
Is that right?
- Yeah, yeah, that's right.
- So Airtable is something that I've seen
and I've had people tell me that,
oh, you definitely have to work with Airtable.
It's amazing, it's like Sheets or Excel,
but way nicer, or things like that.
Tell us, tell people out there,
Airtable's this commercial product, right?
Tell us about this and then we'll get
to some Python-sided things in a moment.
- Yeah, I'm a huge fan of Airtable.
pretty much since the first time I've sort of run into it,
I've been a user and I use it for everything,
personal projects, work,
but I define it as this kind of Google Sheets meet
relational database.
And I think there are other products like it,
but I find their table just really kind of a joy to use.
- Yeah, I also feel like there's a Trello Kanban board
aspect of it as well, right?
- Yeah, they've been adding quite a few kind of like views
and tooling on top of the underlying data.
So there's some interesting things you can do.
It's not as sort of pure of a kind of tracker as Trello is,
but you can basically build a Trello-like interface
and there's a Kanban mode.
So you can, whatever your roles are,
if you have certain fields,
so for example, you could maybe have a table
with like apartments you're listing, for example,
and maybe you have a column that is the status,
whether you've visited them or not.
And in Google Sheet, you would maybe type it
or do like a data validation.
In Airtable, you can actually say,
this is a field that links to this other table
and here are the options that I want.
And you can kind of create truly kind of relational data,
you know, and have these views be linked to each other
and in some really interesting ways.
- Yeah, cool.
So it's a little bit like spreadsheet
meets relational database that has relationships
rather than just random stuff you type in Excel, right?
- Yeah, that's right.
- Cool.
All right, so that's Airtable.
The Python side of things is you created this thing
called PyAirtable, which is a Python client
for the Airtable API, right?
- Yeah, so I think one of the--
- Yeah, it's up to you about this.
- Yeah, it actually, the initial version of this
was through my time at WeWork as well,
but we had all these Airtables
the wood store, I think one of them was like a furniture database, so every row was a piece
of furniture, and you had all this detail about these objects, you know, maybe some
data, and now you wanted to use that in other places, or you wanted to feed additional data
in that table. So Airtable exposed an API, but API, you know, it's somewhat simple and
minimal, but, you know, it works, it's effective. So this was originally called Airtable Python
wrapper, recently renamed to PyAirtable, but it's a lightweight Python client around, it
adds a lot of the nuances about the API itself, some of the data types, and just kind of a
high-level interface so that you can just kind of import it, and you don't have to go
spend too much time in the documentation figuring out what all the HTTP requests are, and it
It just wraps them up and handles a lot of the things and add some nice high level abstractions
to make it really easy to use.
I've been working on this project for probably maybe three years now.
And it was really interesting because in the beginning it was just me and I thought it
was useful to have this and I just kind of put it out there.
And it was really fun to see people coming into the repo and actually asking questions
or opening bug tickets.
and in some cases, I've had people just do lots of contributions, like this one person
came out of nowhere one day and just rewrote a test suite for it. I had the initial test
suite, I guess I didn't know any better, but actually made calls to the API, and it was
hard because the state wasn't predictable, the tests were a bit slow, so I guess when
I did that, I didn't know you should sort of mock your requests and run your tests that
away instead. And they literally came and rewrote all my test suites. So it was really
fun. And it's been one of the longer running open source projects that I've had. And over
time I've just gotten better at maintaining, added features, and then more recently just
rebranded Aspire Table, built new documentation. And it's been really fun to see the project
and it's got a decent user base.
So I often see people coming up in there.
I search GitHub every once in a while
and I see it used in a lot of different places.
So it's really cool to see.
- Yeah, that's fantastic.
So you said it has 200,000 downloads a month
and it's listed as the official Python Airtable library,
right, in the Airtable docs?
- Yeah, I assume those 200,000, a lot of them are CI.
I don't know how many are actual direct installs,
but it does get used.
Yeah, and then the-
- That's still not nothing, right?
Still, that's a lot, right?
Even if it's a quarter,
still a ton of people using the library.
- Yeah, it's pretty exciting.
And then recently, I think it was about a month ago or so,
they added to the official documentation
as the community-driven kind of Python client,
and they didn't have any others listed before that.
So I think that's bringing in even more people.
- Nice, and so you said it also has some ORM capabilities?
- Yeah, so this was really fun.
You know, I would always use this library
or whatever I needed to work with Airtable,
but I would oftentimes want to build classes
for the models that I had, you know.
I was always, I love, you know,
using Django and these different types of ORMs.
I think it's a really fun way
of kind of working with persistence.
and I wanted to do something like that with Airtable.
So in the recent release,
I basically kind of tried to build my own little ORM.
And the idea is that I would define, for example,
if I had an Airtable that it was contact,
name, first name, email, or something,
I could essentially define a class called contact
and then inherit from this Airtable base model
and then define the fields.
And then I could just instantiate that class
and say, not save,
and you would fire the request to basically save it.
I could update an attribute and then just hit
save and you would update it or call it delete method.
It was really fun. I don't know how much that's used.
It's a new feature, but I had tons of fun building it,
and I got into descriptors,
which I had never used before.
>> I had descriptors a while.
>> Yeah, they were really crazy.
You had to define,
these are the attributes this model should have,
but when you actually instantiate,
they behave very differently.
You want to get the actual value,
but not the field type.
Descriptors were the natural answer, I think, to it.
But it was really fun building it.
>> Right. You've got text fields,
and e-mail fields, and even checkbox fields,
which I don't typically recall from the Django ORM or SQL.
>> Yeah. That's an air table.
>> All right.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Cool. Yeah, you even have links
from one Airtable to another.
Cool, yeah, I didn't realize it had this ORM aspect to it.
This is very neat.
- Yeah, so when you fetch a record from Airtable,
if it's a link, you actually just get the ID.
It doesn't actually like transverse the link.
So if you define it as a link field,
it actually takes that ID and fetches the next one
and then actually gives you the object instead of the ID.
- Yeah, perfect.
Like a foreign key type of relationship thing.
- Awesome, all right, anything else you wanna throw out there
about PyAirtable before we wrap this thing up?
- No, no, that's it.
- Yeah, so if people are out there using Airtable
and they wanna treat it like an ORM,
or they just wanna talk to it,
yeah, sounds like you should check this out.
- Yeah, I actually have a blog post I wrote
when I, maybe about a year ago,
that was called, you know,
using Airtable as a backend on Medium,
and it was the initial version of ac.works
instead of having a Django backend,
I actually tried to build it with just an Airtable serving it.
And it was interesting, it's not,
you won't have all the guarantees you have
from a proper database, but it's a really easy way
if you just wanna put data somewhere
and be able to fetch it, and you also get a free UI
that you can see the data and change it.
- Yeah, it's kinda like the admin backend of Django,
but it's like this super rich thing
in the form of Airtable, right?
- Yeah, exactly.
- Yeah, very nice.
I mean, maybe it's not a full ACID transactional database,
but at the same time,
if that's where people are putting the data,
you don't want to put it into Postgres
and then try to keep the thing in sync or something like that
doesn't sound fun either, right?
So use the one place that holds the data
if that's what you're doing.
- Yeah, exactly.
You won't get, I mean, I think if you're doing this,
you're probably not, you won't be replacing a Postgres,
but it would maybe be replacing
just like a local file or something.
- Yeah.
- But yeah, you do get, you know,
you get some form of like revision, you know,
it keeps track of every change.
So you get a lot for free.
- Yeah, very nice.
Yeah, people should definitely check that out.
All right, well, we're about out of our time.
So let me ask you the final two questions here.
If you're gonna write some Python code,
what editor do you use?
- I think these days it's probably always VS Code, right?
or big percentage of it.
>> Yeah, there's definitely a big chunk.
>> My first one was Notepad++,
then I think I used Sublime for a while,
and then Atom, and then end up in VS Code.
These days, I love
the Python integrations that the team there has built.
I couldn't really see myself moving away from it any time soon.
>> Yeah, that's cool.
>> Very invested in it.
There's a lot of action going on with VS Code in general,
and then also in the Python aspect of it.
I do feel like this sublime to Adam,
to almost everyone who is on that path,
VS Code is the destination.
>> Yeah. It just kept getting easier.
>> Yeah. Cool. Notable PyPI package.
I mean, you've already given us
many different packages and things for people to check out,
but something that you ran across,
like, "Oh, this is cool. I really got to tell people about this one."
>> Yeah. I think this is not a secret package.
I think it's a pretty well-known,
but I've just really come to enjoy using Pydantic.
It's one of those that I think I added on pretty much every project.
I think it's such a blast just to be able to define
my classes and set the types.
I really enjoyed the way the project came together
and it's one of the standard ones that I added everywhere now.
>> Yeah. If you have to parse data into
your model or turn your model into something like JSON,
it really helps a lot,
especially if you have a hierarchical model.
I've got this thing that contains a list of
other pedantic models and then you've got to do
type conversions to date times or to numbers or stuff like that.
Yeah, it's fantastic.
>> Yeah, and even on projects where you're collaborating with other people,
you have a sort of my pie first kind of approach, right?
Where from the very beginning, your objects are kind of tight.
And that just makes it a lot easier to collaborate with other people that will
jump into your project and it's very clear what that object is and all the types.
So that kind of helps make sure that you stick with it.
>> Yeah, absolutely, good recommendation.
I suspect people probably have heard of it as well, but
It's definitely a good one.
I've had Samuel on the show to talk about it.
All right, final call to action.
People, especially those out in architecture,
engineering, construction,
are excited about Python and some of the tools.
What do you tell them?
- Yeah, I mean, I think it's an exciting time
for the construction industry.
It's kind of a really good place to innovate.
There's a lot of exciting technology products
and companies being built.
So I think there's a lot of opportunities
to do something in a different space.
And I think they can really benefit from experience,
people that have been doing more traditional software
development to help them scale and build things.
So yeah, it's interesting to see how those streams cross
and to see architects going to build software
and also seeing engineers coming to help make
the architecture and construction industry better.
- Yeah, fantastic.
All right, well, thank you so much for being here.
It's been great to have you on the show.
And I just love to get these views
into the different areas and communities
where Python is making a difference.
So thanks for sharing it in the architecture space.
- Nice, my pleasure.
- Yeah, you bet.
See you later.
- Thanks, man.
Yep.
[BLANK_AUDIO]